Amarnath
MSSQL Database Administrator / IIS Administrator / TSQL, SSRS Developer
Phone Number: 999-123-1234
Email Id: amarnath000001@gmail.com
Professional Summary
 ➢ 12 + years of overall experience in IT Industry as MSSQL Database
 Administrator, and middleware support and Solution Architecting based
 on business demand.
 ➢ Expertise in Installation, configuration and maintenance of SQL Server
 2016/2014/2012/2008/2005.
 ➢ Very good experience in setting up Always-On Availability Groups (AAG)
 and HA/DR Troubleshooting.
 ➢ Experience in setting up, Migrating the databases in Azure
 environment.
 ➢ Very good experience in writing T-SQL writing stored procedures,
 triggers and functions.
 ➢ Implemented the new SQL Server 2012/2014 mechanisms like data
 compression, online indexing, Contained Databases, security principals
 and AAG.
 ➢ Good hands on experience in implementing encryption using TDE.
 ➢ Experience in Administering SQL Server High Availability and Disaster
 Recovery strategies.
 ➢ Experience in using DMV and dynamic management functions in
 performance tuning and reporting out to application teams to enable
 them to take necessary actions.
 ➢ Worked extensively on Clustering and server consolidation.
 Troubleshooting production issues and monitoring database instances
 using Idera to maintain high availability.
 ➢ Proficiency and expertise in SQL Server Replication, Backup/Recovery,
 Disaster recovery and planning.
 ➢ Having hands on experience in DR processes including Log shipping and
 Database Mirroring.
 ➢ Worked on configuring SQL Server with minimum privileged access
 ➢ Having good experience in troubleshooting performance problems, fine-
 tuning of databases and index Analysis.
 ➢ Worked on SQL Server 2012 migration from SQL Server 2008 / 2005.
 ➢ Good understanding of MongoDB NoSQL database creation and
 administration.
 ➢ Having good hands on experience in scheduling backups for databases
 and transaction logs
 ➢ Having good hands on experience in setting up the ADHOC backup/restore
 jobs for Application support team for their testing activities.
 ➢ Having good hands on experience in scheduling jobs for optimization,
 consistency and integrity checks of the databases.
 ➢ Experience in Batch processes, Import, Export, Backup, Database
 Monitoring tools and Application support.
 ➢ Experience in Linked Servers creation between SQL Server
 2016/2014/2012/2008 R2 & Oracle 9i and 10g. Also created DTS/SIS
 packages for data transfer between the two environments.
 ➢ Working knowledge in Integration Services(SSIS), Reporting
 Services(SSRS)
 ➢ Having good experience in using MS SQL Server tools like Enterprise
 Manager, SQL query analyzer, SQL Server Profiler, Windows Performance
 Monitor and T-SQL.
 ➢ Experience in performance monitoring tools SolarWinds, SCOM 2012, SCOM
 APM (Application Performance Monitoring) and Dynatrace tools
 ➢ Excellent knowledge on TFS 2013 /2010 Administration, Version Control
 and Release management.
 ➢ Good experience on Microsoft Windows 2003/2008/2008R2/2012/2016
 Servers and experience supporting mission critical applications which
 are hosted on Windows Environments (2003/2008/2008/R2/2012/2016).
 ➢ Expertise on coordinating with in-house application Developers,
 Functional Support, Business users and Application Vendor in resolving
 the mission critical issues.
 ➢ Good experience in debugging ASP.NET and IIS issues.
 ➢ Good experience in configuring WCF web services and debugging WCF web
 service issues
 ➢ Installed and configured multiple Websites in IIS using different
 techniques and enable the web service extensions.
 ➢ Good experience on making recommendations on products, services,
 standards, long term Solution and attending meetings on strategic
 planning including setting standards and direction for long term
 solution
 ➢ Working with Development teams, application architects on application
 design and performance tuning.
 ➢ Good experience on ensuring ongoing high-quality service delivery for
 production, test, development, Disaster Recovery environments.
 ➢ Good Experience on Onsite/Offshore Transition and Team Building
 activities.
 ➢ Experience of working in fast-paced, deadline-oriented environments.
Education /Certifications;
 ➢ Bachelors in Electronics and Communication Engineering.
 ➢ ITIL V3 Foundation Certified
 ➢ MCITP SQL Server Database Administrator, MCTS: SQL Server 2005
Technical Expertise
|Databases: |MS SQL Server 2016, 2014, 2012, 2008, 2005 |
|Programming: |TSQL, Visual Basic 6, C & C++ |
|DBA: |Database administration of MS SQL Server 2016, 2014,2012,2008,|
| |2005 |
|Operating |Windows 2016/2012/2008/2003 Advanced Server, NT & Windows 9x |
|System: | |
|Tools: |Backup Utility, Red Gate, SQL LightSpeed, Idera, Visio, SCOM, |
| |SolarWinds, Dynatrace |
|Scripting |Power Shell, VB Script |
Professional Experience:
Florida Agency for State Technology (AST)
Apr’2017 -- current
Tallahassee, FL
MS SQL Database Administrator
Responsibilities:
 • Installation and administration of SQL Server instance of versions
 2016/2014/2012 and responsible for creation of databases as per the
 requests from different state agencies which AST is supporting.
 • Responsible for setting up the Development and Test databases and
 refresh with production copy.
 • Implemented the secondary/read-only database replicas for reporting
 purpose using SQL Always-on feature.
 • Handling the SQL alerts which are generated through SolarWinds
 monitoring tool and take necessary actions to keep the system up and
 running and involve the other team if required.
 • Rebuilding / monitoring the indexes at regular intervals for better
 performance.
 • Recovering the databases from backup and Implemented Point-In-Time
 Recovery solutions.
 • Responsible for maintaining security of the database, providing the
 right access to the users.
 • Created the linked servers between Oracle and MS SQL Servers, and
 worked various state agency users to troubleshoot the connectivity
 issues.
 • Implemented the database maintenance Jobs like DBCC CheckDB,
 Reindexing, Index defrag, stats maintenance.
 • Implemented the Database backup jobs using SQL Native, EMC Networker,
 SQLBackup (RedGate) and SQL Safe.
 • Configured Database Mail feature and attended the alerts from databases
 maintenance plans failure.
 • Responsible for SQL patching and application changes as part of change
 and release process.
 • Implemented the Disaster recovery solutions using Microsoft FCI and
 Always-On feature.
 • Implemented the SQL Server and Database Auditing as per the
 requirements.
Environment: SQL Server 2016/2014/2008/2005/2000 Enterprise/Standard,
Windows Enterprise Server 2012/2008/2003, Microsoft Reporting Services.
Global Trading Systems
Chevron Corporation, Houston, TX Oct' 2012 –
Apr’2017
Database Administrator
Responsibilities:
 • Migrated SQL server 2008 to SQL Server 2012 in Microsoft Windows Server
 2012 Enterprise Edition.
 • Migrated the 2008/2012 databases to other sites as part of Data center
 migration.
 • Installed and administered Eight-Node Cluster Active/Passive on
 Microsoft Windows Server 2012 Enterprise Edition on SAN environment.
 • Migrated the low intensive SQL Server instances from Physical to
 Virtual infrastructure.
 • Good Hands on experience on SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) and
 SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).
 • Used DMVs, Performance dash board, Mirroring, database snapshots for
 tracking Performance Counters.
 • Rebuilding / monitoring the indexes at regular intervals for better
 performance.
 • Recovering the databases from backup and Implemented Point-In-Time
 Recovery solutions.
 • Implemented the encryption using TDE.
 • Created the ADHOC jobs for application teams to Backup and Restore the
 backups as per their requirements.
 • Involved in trouble shooting and fine-tuning of databases for its
 performance and concurrency.
 • Experience in using SQL Server Profiler, SQL Server Agent, and Database
 Engine Tuning Advisor (DTA).
 • Expert in implementing the snapshot isolation and DDL triggers.
 • Responsible for monitoring and making recommendations for performance
 improvement in hosted databases. This involved index creation, index
 removal, index modification, file group modifications, and adding
 scheduled jobs to re-index and update statistics in databases.
 • Responsible for working with Team members and offsite team to
 accomplish the work, review the work done by offsite team.
 • Preparing and maintaining the documentation on the process and
 procedures need to be followed by the team.
 • Responsible for maintaining security of the database, providing the
 right access to the users.
Environment: SQL Server 2008/2012/2014 Enterprise, Windows Enterprise
Server 2012, .NET, BizTalk 2013, Microsoft Visio, Microsoft Reporting
Services.
Project Lynx
Chevron Corporation, Houston, TX Jan' 2009 -
Sep' 2012
Application DBA/IIS Administration
Project Lynx is a Global Downstream initiative tasked with implementing
targeted, sustainable improvements in fuels value chain optimization
processes, technology, and organization capabilities.
Lynx will provide a set of system solutions and processes that
comprehensively manage the fuel supply chain – end-to -end. These best-of-
breed decision support tools and fit-for-purpose information systems will
provide reliable data for supply chain integration.
Responsibilities:
 • Responsible for configuring and deploying web applications on IIS
 servers and configuring database servers on windows 2003/2008/2008 R2
 • Coordinating with vendor on application patching and deploying code
 changes
 • Responsible for configuring IIS security and windows firewall rules
 • Installed and configured SSL certificates to ensure web site security
 • Configured host headers to configure multiple web sites on same IP and
 Port
 • Handled Active Directories to manage ACL’s for domains, sites and users
 • Handled security, performance, and tuning issues on Web servers to
 optimize performance
 • Install, configure and maintain servers for Web applications like ASP,
 ASP.NET, and HTML on IIS 6.0/7.0/7.5 on Windows Servers
 2003/2008/2008R2.
 • Configure and maintain application pools and assigned them to various
 web applications on IIS 6.0/7.0/7.5
 • Manage properties for the web applications such as performance, home
 directory, directory security, custom errors and http headers.
 • Configuring properties for the application pools like Performance,
 health, identity and recycling
 • Responsible for troubleshooting production issues for various IIS user
 authentication and server issues.
 • Created Database Objects like Tables, Stored Procedures, Views, user
 defined data types and functions.
 • Responsible for Query optimization and Performance tuning, tuned SQL
 queries using Show Plans and Execution Plans.
 • Responsible for troubleshooting day to day Production issues.
 • Managing security, which includes monitoring and controlling database
 access, assigning permissions to application owners.
 • Involved in the review / test /release process of all database changes
 and managing of Scripts in all environments including QA, Development
 and Production Servers.
 • Used NT Performance monitor to monitor CPU & Memory usage and SQL
 Server Profiler to monitor and record database activities of particular
 users, applications.
 • Responsible for deploying the patches and releases in the Test/Stage
 servers and provide support to application team UAT/regression testing
 cycles.
Environment: MS SQL Server 2005/2008, T-SQL, Windows 2003 Server
Enterprise Education Resource planning. Sep' 2007 -
Dec' 2008
Choice Solutions Ltd., Hyderabad, India
E²RP (Enterprise Education Resource Planning) platform from Choice
Solutions represents the next generation of educational software, which
provides a comprehensive, secure and seamless access to all stakeholder’s
information needs to achieve higher student achievement.
E²RP is specifically created to:
Improve communication and collaboration amongst the stakeholders
(Administrators, Teachers, Students and Parents).
Personalized and secure access to their day-to-day information needs
through a secure portal environment.
Encourage interactions in the classroom, school and administrative
environments through integrated Educational Tools.
Directory – Directory module deals with Organization types, units and users
associated with it. There are various sub modules such as organization
Type, Organization Units, Roles, Users, Groups, Search.
SRS: Student registration system, using this system a student will be
registered with the E²RP so that he can be tracked and monitored every
student is identified with a 10-digit unique number known as SASID (State
assigned system id), to generate this ID E2RP uses identity system which is
programmed to follow a complex algorithm called ISBM.
Responsibilities:
 • Responsible for installation and configuration of SQL server 2005
 database on Dell Servers.
 • Upgraded the existing database to SQL Server 2005.
 • Created Database Objects like Tables, Stored Procedures, Views, user
 defined data types and functions.
 • Generated Reports by using MS SQL Reporting Services.
 • Responsible for Query optimization and Performance tuning, tuned SQL
 queries using Show Plans and Execution Plans.
 • Responsible for troubleshooting day to day Production issues.
 • Implementing stand by servers and Log shipping.
 • Managing security, which includes monitoring and controlling database
 access, assigning permissions to application owners.
 • Involved in the review / test /release process of all database changes
 and managing of Scripts in all environments including QA, Development
 and Production Servers.
 • Used NT Performance monitor to monitor CPU & Memory usage and SQL
 Server Profiler to monitor and record database activities of particular
 users, applications.
 • Created effective Backup and Recovery plan by Transactional Log,
 Differential and Full Database Backups and utilized to recover data in
 point in time in case of disaster of database or server.
Environment: MS SQL Server 2005/2000, T-SQL, Windows 2003 Advanced Server,
MS Visio 2007, MS SQL Reporting Services and SSIS.
CEDaR (Connecticut Education Data and Research) Sep'
2007 - Dec' 2008
Choice Solutions Ltd., Hyderabad, India
CEDaR (Connecticut Education Data and Research) is longitudinal education
data system for the State developed on cutting edge technology using SSIS,
SSRS and other decision support dissemination tools to meet the increasing
demands for education data and will enable CSDE stakeholders to make
informed decisions based on timely and accurate information.
Responsibilities:
 • Involved in installation and configuration of SQL server 2005 on Dell
 Servers. Applied patches and service packs to keep the database at
 current patch level.
 • Created Database Objects like Tables, Stored Procedures, Views, user
 defined data types and functions.
 • Defined relationship between tables and enforced the referential
 integrity constraints. Created Clustered and Non-Clustered Indexes.
 • Responsible for General Database Administration and Performance tuning.
 • Data loading from .xls, .csv and flat files to SQL Server using SSIS
 packages.
 • Creation of views over the tables for report generation.
 • Transformation of views to tables with the new schema.
 • Report generation using SSRS as per business rules and client
 requirements.
 • Creation of parameterized reports.
 • Deployment of SSRS reports in client environment.
Environment: MS SQL Server 2005/2000, T-SQL, Windows 2003 Advanced Server,
MS Visio 2007, MS SQL Reporting Services and SSIS.
Towers Erection Software Aug' 2005 -
Sep' 2007
Kadevi Engineering Company (P) Ltd., Hyderabad, India
Developed Erection Software for Kadevi Engineering Company Pvt. Ltd., to
process various levels in Tower erections.
Entry Screens Site details, Erection Teams, Escorts, Coordinators, Project
Managers, Site Surveyors, Transporters, Payment Entries (Regular/Advance),
Site Shortages and Reworks(Materials)
Preparing Pre-Schedules By providing Required information (Dispatch
Durations, Erection periods)
Generating reports for site wise expenses registers, customer wise expenses
registers, Escorts and Coordinators registers, Erection team wise
registers, complete status of all status sites.
Responsibilities:
 • Created and modified Stored Procedures, Triggers, Views and Indexes to
 provide best performance.
 • Optimized Indexes for better performance using SQL Query Plans at Query
 Analyzer and Index Tuning wizards.
 • Responsible for Database Backups & Restoration, Backup strategies and
 scheduling Backups.
 • Has done DBCC checks to ensure the physical consistency of the database
 and objects. Monitored the database to identify the performance issues
 using SQL Server Profiler and resolved the issues.
 • Implemented the SQL login security for developers and users
 • Implemented Data Migration from MS Access.
 • Created DTS packages to pull data from Oracle and Flat Files.
 • Involved in planning and monitoring Log Shipping.
 • Planning, Implementing and troubleshooting Replication.
 • Created Clustered and Non-Clustered Indexes.
 • Generated different reports using MS SQL Reporting Services.
 • Monitoring the event logs and server error logs for troubleshooting.
Environment: Win 2003 Server, VB.NET, SQL Server 2005, Crystal Reports
Towers Software Aug' 2005 - Sep'
2007
Kadevi Engineering Company (P) Ltd., Hyderabad, India
Kadevi Engineering Company Pvt Ltd., Manufactures the Towers and Antennas,
the main aim of this project is computerization with minimum data entry of
the various Processing Levels in tower manufacturing. Generating the
reports for the live status of the production Levels.
Importing Bill of material.
Creating General Boms, Display Boms, Dispatch Boms
Live Work status for fabrication and galvanizing
Raw material requisition
Dispatch of Tower
Periodical Work analysis reports for Fabrications and Galvanizing
Bills generation Weekly, monthly
Synchronization, Comparison tools to check the production data accuracy
with model Boms and configurations tool for set the capacities and
priorities of the fabricators and items for auto allotment of the materials
to the production
Alerts for material shortages, pending materials with fabricators and
galvanizers
QC analysis reports with graphs representation
Preparing Quotations and generating Comparative statement for material
ordering
Responsibilities:
 • Involved in Data Administration and Database Design. Created Database
 Objects like Tables, Stored Procedures, Views, Triggers, Rules,
 Defaults, user defined data types and functions.
 • Used the SQL Analyzer and Profiler for studying the SQL statements and
 procedures.
 • Perform daily database backup & restoration and monitor the performance
 of Database Server.
 • Developed stored procedures to create various reports.
 • Developed Database Backup Scripts and automated this process
 • Monitor Databases for lock escalation, dead Lock, resource utilization
 by sessions, capturing long running SQL queries using SQL Server.
 • Managing security, which includes monitoring and controlling database
 access, assigning permissions to application owners.
 • Involved in Backing up and Restoring of databases.
Environment: Win 2003 Server, Visual Basic 6.0, SQL Server 2000, Crystal
Reports
Sales and Purchases Information System Aug' 2005 -
Sep' 2007
Secunderabad Industries, India
This Project is developed to maintain the accounting & inventory system of
the company. It deals with Purchase Order, Material Indent, Goods Receipt
Note, ARGP, Issue Slip, MIR, Credit Note, Credit Back, Dispatch Note and
Accounting concepts like Payment & Receipt Vouchers,
Journal Voucher, Invoice, Credit Note, Debit Note, Purchase Bill etc.
Reports generated for Cash Bank transactions, Journal Entries, General
Ledger, P.O. Status, Profit & Loss A/c, Trial Balance, Inward Register,
Outward Register, and Stock Statement and as per the requirement of the
company.
Responsibilities:
 • Involved in Creation Database Objects like Tables, Stored Procedures,
 Views, Triggers, Rules, Defaults, user defined data types and
 functions.
 • Optimized query performance by creating indexes.
 • Involved in Administration of the SQL Server by creating users & login
 ids with appropriate roles & grant privileges to users and roles.
 • Involved in performance tuning of TSQL queries and Stored Procedures.
 • Developed Database Backup Scripts and automated this process
 • Write T-SQL statements for retrieval of data and Involved in
 performance tuning of TSQL queries and Stored Procedures.
 • Use the SQL Analyzer, and Profiler for studying the SQL statements and
 procedures
 • Perform daily database backup & restoration and monitor the performance
 of Database Server.
 • Create joins and sub-queries for complex queries involving multiple
 tables.
 • Developed Stored Procedures to create various reports.
Environment: Win2000 Server, VB.Net, Crystal Reports, SQL Server 2000

