|[pic] |[pic] |Binnu Thomas |
| | | |
| | |tv00001@gmail.com / 1-222-111-1111 |
| | | |
Professional Summary
 • Client focused, results oriented Agile Coach and Scrum Master with
 over two years’ experience coaching technical and product team.
 Executed multi-million dollar projects with teams of varying sizes.
 Over 15 years of spearheading broad range of simultaneous, large scale
 and complex IT projects
 • Certified Scrum Master (CSM, 2017) with knowledge on agile methodology
 and frameworks like Scrum, Kanban and XP. Excellent coaching/mentoring
 skills to coach team how to follow agile scrum, which really works.
 Experience in Agile techniques including User Stories, Continuous
 Integration, Test-driven development (TDD), Acceptance Test Driven
 Development (ATDD), Continuous Testing, Automated Testing and Agile
 Games.
 • Hands on DevOps engineer and Integration/Infrastructure consultant.
 Implemented end-to-end automated DevOps pipelines for various IBM
 middleware platforms. Implemented solutions leveraging Docker
 container technology, UCD plugins or ANT scripts for automation in a
 Jazz build engine, Jenkins and Bamboo. Strong scripting skills using
 ANT, UNIX shell scripting. Installed and configured various IBM
 products in multiple platforms.
 • Provided training and coaching in Agile Development principles and
 practices to development teams, Product Owners, Scrum Masters, and
 program-level leadership. Created and taught 2-day experiential Agile
 Team Workshop classes. Coached development teams and business users,
 architects and executive management.
 • Focused primarily on training the teams to write good user stories,
 prioritize the work based on business value and handling of the tasks
 by the team. Placed substantial efforts on team member role training,
 time-boxing and providing strong metrics for all players
 • Brought in Agile best practices such as time-boxing, continuous
 integration, code/design reviews, transparency, accountability, rally
 tracking, product visioning, technical debt reduction, self-
 management, empowerment and role training resulting in realized
 velocity improvement of more than 100%
 • Performed as Scrum Master for three products and three separate cross-
 site teams (20+ people), identified process changes required to
 accelerate development and remove major impediments. In eight weeks,
 reduced time to ship by approximately 30%. To achieve these results,
 updated group's processes to conform to Agile Scrum standards
 • Facilitated Scrum of Scrum calls for four different applications
 following Agile process
 • Strong communication skills, leadership, analytical, problem-solving,
 and management skills and ability to develop inter-personal
 relationships vertically and horizontally within the organization.
 Possess a positive mental attitude towards every situation and is a
 proactive person, a go getter and excels in producing professional
 documentation.
 • Solid technical background as Software Engineer, Architect and Systems
 Analyst. Experience implementing CD & CI (DevOps) in complex setup.
Career Progression
 ✓ Prolifics, IBM partner company Program/Project Manager May 2008
 till date New York, NY
 ✓ MicroAgility Inc Project Manager Apr 2007
 – Apr 2008 Plainsboro, NJ
 ✓ IBM Global Services Tech Lead Jul 2005 – Jan 2007
 Singapore
 ✓ Citigroup Project Manager Jan 2001 – Jun 2005
 Singapore
 ✓ Temasek Polytechnic System Analyst Nov 1999 –
 Oct 2000 Singapore
 ✓ Reuters Analyst Programmer Mar 1999 –
 Aug 2000 Singapore
 ✓ CPF Board Analyst Programmer Mar 1997 – Feb 1999
 Singapore
Areas of Excellence
 • Program/project management • Scrum, Waterfall, Agile, PMBOK
 • Agile Coach
 • IBM Technology expertise • Installation, Migrations and Upgrades
 • Integration and Infrastructure
 • Banking & Finance domain • Healthcare domain • Retail
 / Govt domain
 • Partner & Vendor Management • Monitoring & Automation •
 Scrum of Scrums
 • Quality Assurance • Solution Architecture •
 Business Analysis
 • Trainer and Mentor • Customer Service/Engagement •
 Financial Oversight & Budgeting
 • DevOps/ Docker • Continuous Integration / Development •
 Cloud and cloud services
Core Skills – Project Management, DevOps, Integration & Infrastructure
Project Management
 • Domain Expertise : Corporate & Retail Banking, Finance, Retail,
 Healthcare, Telecom, Education, Govt Sector, Mortgage
 • PM Methodologies : Waterfall, RUP, Agile, Scrum, SDLC, ITIL
 • Organizational Tools : JIRA, Confluence, SharePoint, Salesforce,
 Rational Team Concert, Google Docs, Documentum, MS Office Suite,
 Wideband Delphi
 • Planning Methodologies : Critical Chain Project Management, Critical
 chain / path, Triple Constraint Theory, Process Improvement
IBM Platform DevOps
 • Implemented Prolifics Build Conductor, a ready-to-use automation
 engine for popular DevOps tools such as Rational Team Concert, Urban
 Code Deploy or other leading automation engines. Implemented end-to-
 end automated DevOps pipelines for various IBM middleware platforms.
 Implemented solutions leveraging Docker container technology, UCD
 plugins or ANT scripts for automation in a Jazz build engine, Jenkins
 and Bamboo
WebSphere BPM, Application Server, Commerce, MQ, IIB & MFT
 • Conducted Infrastructure analysis and provided recommendations.
 Installed and configured on various operating systems. Worked with
 Patches, Upgrades and Migration. Developed scripts to automate
 configuration and deployment. Performed Infrastructure capacity
 planning and Performance Tuning. Executed Production Support and
 troubleshooting.
Rational Suite of Products – RTC, Rose, ClearCase, CleasrQuest,
RequisitePro, TestManager, DOORS
 • Conducted Requirements gathering and planning. Installed and
 configured the product. Worked with advanced configuration of the
 process aspects of the platform. Mentored clients and teams. Performed
 migration from and to various versions. Developed and implemented
 Automated Build and deployment.
 • Worked towards delivering solutions for various clients in
 collaborating requirements management, quality management, change and
 configuration management and project planning and tracking.
Other Skills
 • Smarter Process: Business Process Management, Decision Management,
 Enterprise content management
 • Digital Experience: Portal & Web Content Management, Social Business &
 Collaboration, End-to-End Mobile Development
 • IBM Products: IBM Cloud, IBM Bluemix, IBM SOA, API Connect, WAS,
 Connect:Direct, WPS, WID, WMQ / IIB, WMB, WODM / ILOG, WSRR, WXS,
 Pure, RTC, Data Stage, Data Power, Tivoli, ITCAM / APM
 • DevOps: Rational Team Concert, Prolifics Build Conductor, Urban Code,
 Jenkins, GIT, Docker, Chef, Puppet
 • API Economy: API Portal, API Gateway, API Hosting, API Lifecycle
 • Java Technologies : Java/J2EE, Java Beans, EJB, JSP, Servlets, JDBC,
 JNDI, SOAP, RMI, AJAX, Spring, Hibernate, DOJO, JUnit
 • WebServices: XML, JSON, WSDL, BPEL, SOAP, REST,
 • Design Patterns : Object Oriented Analysis/Design (OOA/OOD), Model-
 View-Controller (MVC), Data Flow Diagrams (DFD), Unified Modeling
 Language (UML)
 • Solutions: API, B2B EDI, SOA, Data Integration, DevOps, ESB, Mobile
 • Scripting: Unix shell scripting, Jython, Python, ANT, JACL
 • App/Web Server : WAS, WebLogic Server, SunOne Web Server, Tomcat
 • IDE: Rational Application Developer Studio (RAD), Eclipse, WebSphere
 Studio Application Developer (WASD), Visual Café and Visual Age for
 Java
 • Database: Mongo, Oracle, DB2, SQL Server, Informix, IDMS, VSAM, MS
 Access.
 • IT Security: Internet Security, Ethical Hack, App Scan, Vulnerability
 Assessment, Proxy-in-between, PKI Encryption, Certificate management,
 TCP/IP, NAT, FTP, SSH, HPPTS, SSL
 • Testing/QA : Mercury Test Director, Load Runner, Bugzilla
 • Other Technologies : ASP, Connect:Direct (NDM), SQL Windows 3.1/
 5.0.4, Centura 1.5, C, COBOL, Easytrieve Plus, CICS, ADSO, JCL
Professional Experience Details
 Prolifics – Agile Coach/Scrum Master & Senior Consultant (9 Years)
 Recruited by premier IBM Partner Company specializing in providing expert
 information technology consulting services to provide project management
 over large-scale, top-priority and complex technology initiatives.
 Managed budgets of up to $8M and cross-functional teams of up to 25
 developers, programmers, analysts, architects, testers and network
 specialists.
 Drove the high-quality completion of systems engineering,
 software/database development and enterprise wide implementation projects
 for major clients including.
 • HealthNow Health Insurance, NY • BJs Wholesale, MA •
 Two Sigma Investments, TX
 • Penske Truck Rental, PA • Ralph Lauren Luxury clothing, NY
 • MassMutual Insurance, MA
 • TBC Automotive, FL • Stearns Finance & Banking, CA
 • Herff Jones School services, IN
 • BCBS Insurance, NJ • Apple Vacations Travel, PA
 • DOHMH, NY
 • Pep Boys Automotive, PA • CIC Insurance, OH •
 Huntington Bank, RI
 • RBC Bank, NY • BT Telecom, NY
 Achievement Highlights:
 • Coached and mentored agile team members and provided constructive
 performance feedback. Coached teams, Business Analysts, Managers and
 Executives on Agile manifesto, values and principles to promote
 continuous improvement in practices and artifacts. Encouraged the
 team for self-organization to boost the efficiency and coordination.
 • Facilitated Daily scrum meetings, spring planning, spring review, and
 spring retrospective. Facilitated Scrum of Scrums for multiple Scrum
 teams across multiple regions and time zones.
 • Worked with Product owner On Artifacts Such as Product Backlog, Spring
 Backlog, Sprint Burndown and Release Burndown. Worked with stake
 holders, product owners to prioritize the requirements for sprint.
 Encouraged and enforced the team to come up with reusable elements and
 use the best practices.
 • Managed the overall performance and delivery of cross-functional team.
 Broadcasted the team's progress and successes to make sure they are
 highly visible to product owner and stakeholders.
 • Established effective communication for the department with
 consistency across development and business management. Presentations,
 recommendations and updates provided regularly to the Director office.
 Provide visibility to team impediments/risks and helps eliminate them.
 • Introduced and executed exercises, workshops and games to enhance team
 building skills, increased creativity/productivity, effective
 communication, prioritization sizing and estimation.
 • Custom Software Developments: Managed all phases of the software
 development lifecycle (SDLC) for dozens of custom solutions. Delivered
 industry-leading software that saved clients millions of dollars,
 shortened processes from months and weeks to minutes, captured market
 share and generated annual revenues after launch.
 • Systems Engineering: Led design and rollout of robust, scalable and
 secure Integration solutions, Continuous Integration & Continuous
 Deployment (CI/CD), Cloud, Analytics/Data warehousing, BPM, Decision
 management, API and Java systems for various clients.
 • Program Manager: Established the CORE with formal processes for
 seamless project and portfolio management, resource allocation, and
 performance measurement at the intersection of business and
 technology. Presented to the executive team. Increased customer
 engagement and drove sales by managing marketplaces and aligning
 business and IT stakeholders to accelerate delivery of new product
 features.
 • DevOps Engineer: Provided solutions for continuous integration and
 continuous delivery (CI/CD). Developed and implemented automated build
 and deploy solutions. Documented, mentored and trained teams.
 Leveraged latest technologies like Docker and cloud to architect and
 implement solutions.
 MicroAgility – Project Manager (1 Year)
 Recruited by one of the leading consulting company to provide services
 for various projects that required professional project management.
 Drove the high-quality completion of systems engineering,
 software/database development and enterprise wide implementation projects
 including.
 • Sirius & XM Merger, NYC • Permission TV Migration, MA •
 Financial Reporting, NHP Insurance, MA
 Achievement Highlights:
 • Took charge of critical time bound project in a relative shorter time
 frame to deliver the project as required by the senior executives.
 Created and maintained integrated project plans for all the different
 component teams involved in the project. Worked and coordinated tasks
 with different teams and departments and escalated the relevant issues
 to respective people proactively.
 • Reported and worked directly to the senior executives, CEO, VP/CTO of
 engineering for product roadmap and client services projects as well
 as with Director of Infrastructure for all the infrastructure related
 projects. Executed the infrastructure migration project by maintaining
 client expectation in terms of SLA by interacting with various vendor
 teams, local development teams, client services and service provider.
 • Worked with the marketing team for Product management for the PDK
 changes, innovations, roadmaps and releases. Created use cases for
 infrastructure requirements that include BAU, Operational,
 Synchronization, Automation and Security requirements.
 • Proposed and executed agile methodology and scrum meetings to the
 existing processes to meet the rapid and dynamic customer
 requirements. Conducted daily scrum meetings, got updates from various
 teams and updated the status regularly to senior management as well as
 managed risk and issues in the project
 • Prepared test strategy and lead QA team to create test plans, ensure
 quality and performance. Prepared and implemented various process
 changes pertaining to change management, requirements gathering,
 customer support infrastructure etc.
 • Drafted proposals for process re-engineering within the organization
 so that the IT department can adhere to the latest technologies and
 methodologies. Interviewed various people within the department to
 understand the roles that they were doing and proposed new team
 structure that’s required to meet the current technologies and
 requirements.
 IBM Global Services, IBM – Tech Lead, Singapore
 Recruited by IBM Global Services (IGS) to provide technical leadership to
 local banking client – DBS Bank. Worked for retail banking, core banking
 projects to provide support and implement enhancements. Worked with new
 code banking implementation as SME to provide requirements.
 Provided technical leadership for core projects in Java/J2EE
 software/database development and enterprise wide implementation projects
 including.
 • Check Verification System (CVS) • Negative File
 Transfer (NX)
 Achievement Highlights:
 • CTS/CVS is an image-based check clearing system. Managed people,
 resources and project in accordance to the contractual obligations
 between IBM and DBS Bank. Lead project team (customer, internal team
 and vendors) to deliver integration solution from development,
 testing, installation to acceptance. Analyzed customer requirements
 and provided detailed solution design and specification. Ensured
 solution delivered as per customer requirements, was on time and
 within budget. Provided on-going support to customer on integration
 solution enhancements
 • NX is an intermediate system that stands between loans application and
 Credit Bureau. Lead project team (customer, internal and vendors) to
 deliver integration solution from development, testing, installation
 to acceptance
 Global Corporate and Investment Banking (GCIB), Citigroup – Project
 Manager, Singapore (4.5 yrs)
 Recruited by Citibank’s Corporate banking department to provide technical
 leadership, project and product management roles for ecommerce project
 rolled out for the corporate customers across the world in all continents
 spanning from Australia to Latin Americas.
 Provided project management and p.
 • eBilling (B2B gateway) • Payment Interface Management
 Systems (PIMS)
 Achievement Highlights:
 • eBilling is a B2B Gateway, an end-to-end solution for the
 consolidation, presentment and payment of invoices from multiple
 suppliers’ organizations. A Platform for suppliers of corporate
 customers to upload invoices from various sources to the gateway for
 presentment and payment. The buyers are able to register with the
 gateway to view and process invoices online. The dispute functionality
 coupled with the work flow approval capability creates an environment
 that facilitates efficient delivery, presentment and payment of bills
 in a secure environment.
 • PIMS acts as a middle layer between enterprise wide applications
 (Intranet and internet) and Citibank Backend Core Processing systems
 (FC, BSI, GFH etc). PIMS facilitate payment processing (Electronic
 Fund Transfer, GIRO Collections, Direct Debit, and Speed Collect),
 invoice processing (Wholesale Lock Box) and Credit card processing
 (Online and Offline). PIMS communicates with both Front-end
 applications and Backend systems through IBM MQ Series, Sterling’s
 Connect:Direct and Citibank’s proprietary software SSLXFR (using
 openssl). PIMS has its own Parameter Driven Services (Java threads) to
 process the Transaction instructions. Credit card service is a
 multithreaded process and handles online Credit card Payments. PIMS
 communicates with different Internet Payment Gateways based on the
 type/mode of Credit card payment.
 • Managed and implemented eBilling product for the corporate clients in
 Asia Pacific, Europe and Latin American Countries. Developed and
 maintained business models. Worked with marketing team, clients and
 customers to understand the requirements and incorporated as core
 product functionalities. Managed people, resources and project in
 order to ensure successful delivery of complete solutions to
 customers. Worked closely with the product management to finalize the
 roadmap and product releases. Promoted the building of good
 relationships between business, customers and technology
 • Worked closely with the product testing teams to ensure product
 quality. Prepared and distributed reports and documents to senior
 management and other relevant stake holders. Provided mentoring to
 other team members and end users to enhance skills, business and
 functional knowledge. Identified risks, prepared risk mitigation plans
 and executed contingency actions. Investigated and resolved product
 issues brought up through the customer support, in accordance with
 agreed processes and Service Level Agreements
 • Created and maintained Escalation plan. Investigated and resolved
 product issues brought up through the customer support in accordance
 with agreed processes and Service Level Agreements. Managed and
 coordinated Vulnerability Assessment Tests. Implemented and performed
 High Availability, Performance Tuning, Load Testing and Disaster
 Recovery for the application.
 Early Career
 Temasek Polytechnic – Project Lead (1 Year)
 • Modular System (Student Financials System Study) •
 Student Development System (SDS)
 • The existing Student Billing System was re-developed to cater for the
 new requirements as well as address the limitations in the existing
 system. The objective of the project was to study the existing system
 in detail, document it and identify new functional requirements.
 • Led the team of 6 persons for the system study. Prepared the tender
 specifications for Student Financials System. Carefully studied the
 requirements, scheduled meetings with users and prepared minutes for
 the meeting. Prepared documentation regarding the existing system
 • SDS was developed utilizing J2EE architecture, to monitor and track
 students’ extracurricular activities. The Student Development System
 allows Student Development & Alumni Division (SDAD) to monitor and
 track the student population and co-curricular activities (CCA)
 participation as well as their CCA Award and Achievement. The front-
 end was designed using JSP and the business logic is written in
 Enterprise Java Beans (EJB). Servlets acts as the controller to access
 the data through entity and session beans. The SDS also interacts with
 other systems like Student Information System (SIS) to access the
 student information
 • Utilized JSP, Servlets and EJB(s) to write code for the system.
 Deployed the EJB(s), developed for the implementation of business
 logic. Integrated with other subsystems. Tested the system in the
 local version of WebLogic.
 Reuters – Analyst Programmer (6 months)
 • UKI Core Suite Migration
 • The project requirement was for UK and Ireland, development was done
 in Singapore. In accordance with the company's desire to adopt
 administration standards and a single administration system globally,
 decision was made to migrate the sales order processing system from
 ISIS (existing Oracle system) to Core suite components (System in
 Mainframes). All Front Line Business Units (FLBU) with the exception
 of the UK and Ireland used Core Suite applications to support their
 business. The purpose of this project was to develop and deliver Core
 Suite functionality for UK and Ireland.
 • Prepared Functional, Design and Unit Specifications for the modules.
 Interacted with users to gather information and analyzed the
 requirements for UK and Ireland. Carried out coding of various
 modules. Performed Unit testing, Integration testing, and released the
 system for User Acceptance Testing (UAT). Updated the project for
 Reuter’s intranet.
 Central Provident Fund Board (CPF Board) – Analyst Programmer (2 Years)
 • MS Revamp • MVS COBOL Upgrade
 • The project was to revamp the whole system within MIS. It included
 restructuring of database to accommodate the expanded fields and to
 cater for the expanded fields in the programs. Modularizing the common
 functions and cater for Y2K changes.
 • Managed the progress of subsystems which included MED (Medisave) for
 the employees medical benefits, SEM (Self Employment) which protects
 those who are involved in self-employment, PHS (Public Housing Scheme)
 helps people with housing needs. Developed sub-routines for common
 functionalities and performed Unit tests of systems that required
 modifications. Created parallel run environment for the team’s batch
 applications and conducted and coordinated the integration testing.
 Ported over the completed applications to production
 • This project was intended to serve as a step for the conversion of
 Operating System from MVS/ESA to OS/390. MVS/ESA the current OS on
 Mainframe was not Y2K compliant and the OS was going to be migrated to
 OS/390, which in turn did not support OS/VS COBOL and VS COBOL II
 compilers. The benefits of the migration being Y2K coding
 capabilities, built in Math functions, Structured Programming, Object
 oriented extension etc. The first phase of the project was to convert
 all routines used by the system to MVS COBOL with the help of CCCA
 utility. The second phase was to convert all batch programs to MVS
 COBOL. Final phase deals with the online applications.
 • Developed new Endevor MVS COBOL processors and amended the existing
 one. Link-edited all OS/VS COBOL and COBOL II programs. Tested MVS
 COBOL.. Tested selected programs according to the subroutine,
 frequency of usage and criticality.
Education
 • Honors Diploma in Information and System Management (HDISM) – Aptech,
 1996, Trivandrum, India
 • Software Training program on IBM Mainframe (ES9000) - ER&DC, STDC,
 1996, Trivandrum, India
 • Bachelor of Commerce – Kerala University, 1993, Trivandrum, India
Professional Certifications
 • Certified Scrum Master (CSM) - (Anticipated: October 2017)
 • IBM Certified System Administrator (WAS ND v8.5.5 and Liberty Profile)
 – Aug 2014
 • Project Management Professional (PMP) – Acelentia Consulting, 2007,
 Trivandrum, India
 • I-Expert (Java, Oracle DBA, CCNA) – Informatics, 2005, Singapore

